
The Company reserves the right to unilaterally revise, suspend, revoke, terminate or change any of its policies,
in whole or in part, whether described within this handbook or elsewhere, in its sole discretion. If any
discrepancy between this handbook and current Company policy arises, conform to existing Company policies.
Every effort will be made to keep you informed of the Company’s policies; however, we cannot guarantee that
notice of revisions will be provided. Feel free to ask questions about any of the information within this
handbook.
Disciplinary Policy
Purpose:
This procedure talks about necessary measures when there is a violation within, outside or related to the
Organization. Violation that impacts or has a potential impact on security, information, confidentiality, ethics or
any such breach as mentioned and covered in this document and in the code of conduct policy document.
Scope :
Covers everyone who is associated with Coditas in any capacity.
Procedure:
Task Details / Actions to be carried out Task Owner
Coditas has defined and established a formal disciplinary process for
employees who commit a breach, as covered in the code of conduct
and disciplinary policy documents..
HR Department
Breach could be any such act committed that compromises and not
just limited to, confidentiality, ethics, integrity, availability of
information within Coditas’ ISMS, code of conduct and disciplinary
Scope.
End user / Employee
In case of an employee committing the first breach, the same is
recorded and the concerned employee is given awareness or a
warning about the breach and its consequences. Repetitive offenses
will lead to and result in further disciplinary action.
HR Department
Disciplinary actions -
Sr.
No.
Severity
Category
Possible Punitive Action Examples of Violations
1. HIGH Suspension of Service /
Termination of Employment /
Cancellation of Contract /
Severe Reprimand /
Performance diary entry to be
done by manager and
performance pay cut for not
less than 3
months/Demotion/Lowering
salary
1. Anti-bribery and Anti-Corruption
2.Accepting Gifts and Entertainment from any
third party
3.Competition and Antitrust
4.Activities that taint and sabotage the
Organization’s brand and reputation
5.Spreading any hate content through any
medium
6.Under influence of Intoxication or drugs
7.Embezzlement
8.Harassment of any nature
Internal Circulation - 21
9.POSH instances
10.Organization Information and data security
breach or any sort of violation
11.Disclosure of Confidential and Proprietary
Information
12.Coditas IPR violation or theft
13.Discrimination on grounds of race, colour,
gender, creed, religion, ethnic origin, age,
disability etc
14.Indulging in any sort of pornography
2. MEDIUM Counseling / Severe Reprimand
/Suspension of
Service/performance Diary
entry to be done by manager
and performance pay cut for
not less than 1 month and
written and verbal
warning/Demotion/Lowering
salary
1.Use of Pirated / unauthorized/ unapproved
software
2.Non Adherence to Clear Desk and Clear
Screen Policy
3.Accuracy of Business Records
4.Usage of Org resources for personal
consumption
5.Insubordination or disobedience
6.Uninformed absenteeism (repetitive)
6a. Proceeding on leave without manager
approval and application
6b. Inconsistency/incompletion of mandatory
work
6c. Irregularity with attendance
6d. Habitual delayer, defaulters, later comers to
office
7. Falsification of attendance, leave
management and record keeping
8.Theft, fraud or removal of Organization
property
9.False claims/declarations/expense
settlements
10.Violation of Health and Safety rules
11.Smoking at workplace
12.Inappropriate usage of social media
involving the Organization
3. LOW Reprimand / Counseling and
written and verbal warning
1.Sharing Project Confidential Information with
improper/inadequate access to unauthorized
people within Coditas
2. Unauthorized relocation of Information Asset
inside the premises.
3. Having MP3, Videos, Movies on Desktop
4.Uninformed absenteeism
Output:
● Verbal warning (Minutes of Meetings as an evidence)
● Warning letter
● Entry in the performance diary
● Termination
Depending on the severity of the incidence, the activity severity could escalate to the next higher level.
Internal Circulation - 22
Note
For doubts and questions in terms of executing this procedure, HR Department shall be referred
POSH POLICY
Policy Statement
Coditas Solutions LLP values and recognizes the right of every single associate to perform their duties without
being subjected to any form of sexual harassment against women at workplace. Discrimination and harassment
of any form will not be tolerated at any level. The Company has adopted Zero tolerance towards any form of
sexual harassment and is committed to take necessary preventive steps to ensure that the associates are not
subjected to it. The Company is committed to protect the dignity of their associates, to promote a fair, safe and
healthy work environment based on mutual trust and respect, conducive to the professional growth of its
associates. CODITAS SOLUTIONS LLP does not encourage gender-based discrimination and therefore promotes
gender equality.
A breach of this policy will result in disciplinary action, up to and including termination of employment without
serving notice period . The Company strongly encourages any associate who feels that they have been sexually
harassed to take immediate action and report the same to POSH ICC. Any incidents of sexual harassment will be
treated seriously and promptly with sensitivity. Such reports will be treated as completely confidential up to the
point where a formal or informal complaint is lodged against a particular person, at which point that person
must be notified under the rules of natural justice. This policy is made under the overall ambit of the Coditas
Solutions LLP Code of Conduct and based on the provisions of the Sexual Harassment of women at workplace
(Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act 2013 (hereafter shall be referred as the Act) &amp; the amendment
bill 2024 is also incorporated.
The purpose of this policy document is to define workplace sexual harassment against women, prohibit it in all
forms, formulate the ICC, carry out appropriate disciplinary measures in the case of violations through ICC, and
provide procedures for lodging complaints about conduct that violates this policy and investigating sexual
harassment claims. The Company also strives to provide a safe working environment to all those who visit any
of their work locations in any capacity, such as vendors, customers, etc. To ensure that this is upheld in both
letter and spirit, responsibility lies with every Manager, Supervisor and employee/visitor to ensure that sexual
harassment does not occur. Anyone who fails to take appropriate corrective action when aware of harassment
of a person will be subject to disciplinary action by the ICC.
Scope
This policy applies to all associates and also to those who are not associates of the Company, such as
customers, visitors, vendors, suppliers, contract workers, probationer, trainees, retainer, interns, consultant
who could be subjected to sexual harassment at the premises termed as ‘workplace’ of the company. The
company will not tolerate sexual harassment against women, if engaged in by clients or by suppliers or any
other business associates.
“Associate” would refer to anyone employed at CODITAS SOLUTIONS LLP for any work on regular, temporary, ad
hoc or daily wage basis, either directly or through an agent, including a contractor, with or, without the
knowledge of the principal employer, whether for remuneration or not, or working on a voluntary basis or
otherwise, whether the terms of employment are express or implied and includes a co-worker, a contract
worker, probationer, trainee, apprentice, retainer, consultant or called by any other such name.
“Workplace” refers to India offices of CODITAS SOLUTIONS LLP and/or any place visited by the associate arising
out of or during employment, including transportation provided by the employer for the purpose of commuting
to and from the place of employment.
Internal Circulation - 23
“Extended Workplace” includes -
1. Business locations of the Company (i.e. all offices or other premises where the Company’s business is
conducted)
2. Any external location visited by associates due to or during the course of their employment with the
Company such as business locations of other companies, guest houses, etc. (i.e. whether sexual harassment has
taken place within or outside the Company premises).
3. Any social, business networking place or other functions where the conduct or comments may have an
adverse impact on the workplace or workplace relations (i.e. whether the incident has occurred during or
beyond office hours).
4. Any mode of transport provided by the Company (or a representative of the Company) for undertaking a
journey to and from the aforementioned locations.
5. Any associate working as per the Work from Home concept whether the location is their own home, club,
hotel, or any such place of work.
“Complainant/ Aggrieved Person” means in relation to a workplace, an associate of any age, whether
employed or not, who alleges to have been subjected to any act of sexual harassment at the workplace by
another person.
The definition of Complainant/Aggrieved person for the purpose of this policy extends to all associates or
non-associates irrespective of status of employment.
Sexual Harassment Definition
“Sexual harassment” would include harassment in sexual connotation caused to a woman or by opposite
gender or by same gender.
Any unwelcome sexually determined behavior, such as:
a. Physical contact and advances (such as touching, stalking, eve teasing, sounds which have explicit and /or
implicit sexual connotation/overtones, molestation, touching one’s own body in front of the other employee,
entering the private space of the other person); or
b. A demand or request for sexual favors (whether verbal, textual, graphic, electronic or by any other action)
whether or not in return for a term or condition of instruction, employment, participation or evaluation of a
person’s engagement in any company activity or
c. Making sexually colored remarks (including but not limited to vulgar/ indecent jokes, letters, phone calls,
text messages, e-mails, gestures, taunts, eve-teasing etc.); or
d. Displaying /sending pornographic content; or
e. Any act or conduct by a person in authority and belonging to one sex which denies or would deny equal
opportunity in pursuit of career development or otherwise making the environment intimidating to a person
belonging to the other / same sex; or
f. Any other unwelcome physical, verbal or non-verbal conduct of sexual nature; or
g. Harassment can occur in person, over the phone (including voice mail), over the internet, e-mail, social media
or video call or any other form of communication; or
Internal Circulation - 24
h. Creating a hostile environment in lieu of any sexual advances/ sexual favors.
This includes verbal, non-verbal or physical conduct such as obnoxious comments or utterances, remarks or
jokes, letters, phone calls, gestures, sounds of a nature with sexual overtures.
Awareness about the policy
CODITAS SOLUTIONS LLP would take all requisite steps to ensure effective dissemination of this policy through
workshops, meetings of ICC members, change the POSH policy once a year, awareness programs, complaint
boxes, enrol on SHE-BOX Portal with awareness training to the employees and printed communications in
accordance with the Act.
Internal Complaints Committee (ICC)
In order to objectively redress the sexual harassment complaints, CODITAS SOLUTIONS LLP has formed an
Internal Complaints Committee. The names of the CODITAS SOLUTIONS LLP ICC members have been listed
under Annexure A and displayed at various conspicuous places in the office.
Guidelines followed while constituting ICC at CODITAS SOLUTIONS LLP
● The Company’s ICC will comprise of minimum 4 members.
● Coditas Solutions LLP woman officer of adequately high position will be appointed as the Presiding Officer
of ICC. In case there is no appointing of a suitable woman officer in a location, then the Presiding Officer
can be nominated from any of CODITAS SOLUTIONS LLP location operating in India.
● CODITAS SOLUTIONS LLP shall appoint more than 50% members in the ICC who are women.
● CODITAS SOLUTIONS LLP will ensure that at least two members of ICC are women associates.
● CODITAS SOLUTIONS LLP shall appoint/co-opt for an external member from an NGO or associations who
is committed to the cause of women or a person familiar with the issues relating to sexual harassment to
help redressal of issues.
● Changes in the constitution of the ICC, whenever necessary, shall be made as expeditiously as possible
and in any case within 15 days of the date of vacancy.
● The POSH Act 2013 has vested the same powers with ICC as are vested in a civil court while inquiring into
a complaint.
● The tenure of CODITAS SOLUTIONS LLP ICC members is of 3 years’ term from the date of nomination.
● ICC members may be removed before the three-year time period in case they contravene any provisions
of the policy or abuses his/her position as a member of the committee or if the said member is either the
complainant or respondent of a POSH case.
● ICC member will be immediately replaced by other member if the existing member is leaving the
organization/ or the services are terminated, by a resignation letter by the existing member &amp; signed
by other members or calling upon a meeting for the same.
● ICC will immediately terminate the ICC member in case if he/she is a complainant or a respondent of a
POSH complaint.
Redressal of Complaints
Complaint Mechanism
● Complainant will give a written complaint only to the ICC at the complaint box or email ICC@coditas.com
maximum within 1 year/ at the earliest of the last incident sexual harassment incident happened with the
complainant.
● The reasons for the delay if any must be recorded in writing.
● No any anonymous complaints will be accepted by ICC
● The complainant is required to send a written complaint with scanned copies or submit sufficient copies
Internal Circulation - 25
of detailed complaint (recommended six copies) along with supporting documents/ date, evidences and
names & amp; addresses of the respondent and/or witnesses.
● CODITAS SOLUTIONS LLP encourages and supports its associates to file written complaint against acts of
sexual harassment faced by them and will render all reasonable assistance to the complainant to make
the complaint in writing.
● In case the complainant is unable to make a complaint on account of his/her physical incapacity, the
complaint may be filed by his/her relative, friend, co-worker or by any person who has knowledge of the
incident, with his/her written consent.
● In case the complainant is unable to make a complaint on account of his/her mental incapacity, the
complaint may be filed by his/her relative, friend, a special educator, a qualified psychiatrist or
psychologist, the guardian or authority under whose care he/she is receiving treatment or care or by any
person who has knowledge of the incident jointly with any person mentioned herewith.
● In case the complainant dies before his/her consent is obtained, the complaint may be filed by any
person who has knowledge of the incident with the written consent of his/her legal heir.
● In the event the complainant is unable to file a complaint for any other reason, a complaint may be filed
by any person who has knowledge of the incident, with the written consent of the complainant person.
● The complainant may also reach out to his/her reporting manager, HR manager or any other associate
through an email or a written complaint to the ICC. Upon being intimated, it is the duty of the reporting
manager or the presiding officer, Manager or any other associate to provide reasonable assistance to the
complainant to write the complaint and bring it to the attention of the ICC or send via email to the ICC,
providing all the necessary details of the Complaint. The complainant must be copied on all such emails.
● The written complaint is prescribed to have following information:
a. Complainant person’s name, designation, contact numbers/ details and date of occurrence of
incidence.
b. Respondent’s name, designation, contact numbers/details as available
c. Nature, type and details of complaint, including who, what, when, where and how.
d. Identity of witnesses, if any.
e. Other potential complainant persons, if any.
f. Any other evidences i.e. email, messages, pictures, videos if any to be produced
Process of Enquiry
● Upon receiving a formal complaint, the ICC should ask the complainant to prepare a detailed statement
of incidents if the written complaint is sketchy.
● The ICC should also attempt to obtain the complainant’s signature on a scanned copy of the complaint if
the complaint has been filed via email.
● The ICC must send a copy of the complaint and other relevant documents to the accused/respondent,
within 7 days of the receipt of the complaint seeking a response. The accused/ respondent should
specifically be informed about the confidentiality obligations.
● The accused / respondent must file his/her reply to the ICC within 10 days from the date of receipt of the
complaint along with supporting documents, details of witnesses (name &amp; address).
● In the first instance, the ICC will provide an opportunity to the complainant as well as the respondent to
represent their position and provide their explanations.
● Inquiry will be initiated by the ICC
● The ICC will organize verbal hearings with the complainant and the respondent, in accordance with
principles of natural justice.
● Both the parties to be given reasonable opportunity to be heard along with the witnesses
● The ICC to take testimonies of other relevant persons and review the evidence wherever necessary. The
committee should ensure that enough care is taken to avoid any retaliation against the witnesses.
● During the inquiry process, the complainant and the respondent should refrain from any form of threat,
intimidation or influencing of witnesses.
● Written record of all discussions to be maintained by the committee.
Internal Circulation - 26
Note:
● During the inquiry at least three ICC members including the Presiding
● officer shall be present or participate through voice/video calls or in person
● at the office premises.
● The ICC to complete the inquiry within 90 days.
● No legal practitioner can represent any party at any stage of the inquiry procedure.
Submission of Enquiry Report
● On completion of inquiry, the ICC will Email or handover the report
● containing findings and the recommended action thereon to the Head of HR for the location within 10
days.
● The Head of HR will clarify with the ICC on the recommendation and will
● direct implementation of the same within 60 days of receiving the report from ICC.
● Final recommendations consisting of findings and proposed corrective action, to be communicated to the
complainant and respondent. A consent
● (written or verbal) to be taken from the complainant stating that he/she is satisfied with the
recommended corrective action and the inquiry process.
● The proceedings under these investigative procedures shall; be treated as
● strictly confidential and shall not be divulged by any staff member or any of the parties to anyone.
● The details will also be mentioned in filling a compliance every year.
Reconciliation Process
● Amendment bill 2024 has strictly mentioned that no reconciliation after filling a report at POSH ICC be
allowed
● Monetary settlement cannot be the basis of the conciliation.
● There will be no financial transaction between the complainant or the respondent in any form during the
ICC inquiry
● The reconciliation is an option given to the complainant only with the counselor before filling a written
complaint to the POSH ICC.
● The conciliation process will involve fact finding and/or interviews with
● complainant and respondent. The outcome is usually an apology, promise not to repeat behavior, transfer
of one party or voluntary resignation.
● If the conciliation is successful, both the parties must express and accept the outcome of the case in
writing or through an Email.
● Settlement arrived at through conciliation process will have to be recorded,
● signed by both parties, and a scanned copy of the same should be forwarded to the management of the
company to act as specified.
● The terms of settlement should be made available to both parties.
● In case a settlement is reached, no formal inquiry will be conducted.
● Resolution through conciliation should happen within 2 weeks of receipt of complaint.
Discipline
Employees who violate this policy are subject to appropriate discipline. If an inquiry results in a finding that
this policy has been violated, the mandatory minimum discipline is a written reprimand. Persons who violate
this policy may also be subject to civil damages or criminal penalties. Some of the actions to be taken:
● A written or Email apology (preferred)
● Disciplinary action can include warning, reprimand, withhold promotion, demotion, termination,
Internal Circulation - 27
suspension, change of role or transfer, deduction from salary of respondent payable to complainant or
any other punishment as per service rules.
Note
● In case the complainant is not satisfied with the actions recommended by the ICC and desires to lodge
the Complaint with the appropriate
● authority under Indian Penal Code, CODITAS SOLUTIONS LLP shall provide necessary assistance in the
matter.
● In case of new evidences, the ICC can re-open the case.
Interim Redressal
In case ICC is of the opinion that the complainant needs protection from
the interference of the respondent during the inquiry, it may choose to -
● ensure no communication whatsoever exists between the complainant and the respondent
● transfer the complainant or the respondent to any other department/ location or
● grant leave to the complainant; such leave is in addition to the annual leaves.
● restrict the respondent from reporting on the work performance of the complainant individual or writing
his/her confidential report and assign the same to another officer.
● offer a counselling service in case the complainant feels traumatized
Appeal
Any party not satisfied by the implementation or non-implementation of recommendations made, may appeal
to the appellate authority in accordance with the Act and rules, within 90 days of the recommendations being
communicated.
Protection Against Victimization
CODITAS SOLUTIONS LLP is committed to ensuring that no employee who brings forward a harassment concern
is subject to any form of reprisal. Any reprisal will be subject to disciplinary action.
The Company will ensure that the victim or witnesses are not victimized or discriminated against while dealing
with complaints of sexual harassment.
Malicious Allegations
In event if it is brought to the management of CODITAS SOLUTIONS LLP by the ICC that the complaint was made
with a malicious intent and/or with the motive of defaming and/or tarnishing his/her image, a separate inquiry
may be initiated to substantiate the claim.
If a woman has filed a false complaint then a fine of 1 LAKH or jail time of 2 years will be charged by ICC to
prevent false allegations in the workplace.
Such acts are considered against the code of conduct of CODITAS SOLUTIONS LLP and will attract strict
disciplinary action if the claim is substantiated.
Non-Retaliation
CODITAS SOLUTIONS LLP will not accept, support or tolerate any retaliation in any form against any associate
who acts in good faith, reports suspected misconduct, asks questions or raises concerns. Strict disciplinary
action will be taken against any person engaging in direct or indirect form of retaliation. Incidents of retaliation
should be reported to ICC. Retaliation may include actions like -
● marginalizing someone in the workplace with regards to their roles and responsibilities
● socially ostracizing
● intimidating someone or someone close or related to the victim; physically, psychologically, and
Internal Circulation - 28
emotionally
● intimidating or pressurizing parties involved in the case to withdraw the case or
● threatening not to report, testify or otherwise participate in the proceedings.
Confidentiality
All inquiries, complaints and investigations are treated confidentially. Information is revealed strictly on a
need-to-know basis. Information contained in a formal complaint is kept as confidential as possible. However,
the identity of the complainant is usually revealed to the respondent and witnesses. The HR manager and
presiding officer has to take adequate steps to ensure that the complainant is protected from retaliation during
the period of the investigation. All information pertaining to a sexual harassment complaint or investigation is
to be maintained in secured files. The HR head can answer any questions relating to the procedures for
handling information related to sexual harassment complaints and investigations to complainants and
respondents. The information should not be disclosed even to members of senior management who are not
directly involved with the Complaint and inquiry even during board review/meeting. The contents of the
complaint made, the identity and addresses of the Complainant, Respondent and witnesses, any information
relating to conciliation and inquiry proceedings, recommendations of the ICC and the action taken on the
Respondent shall not be published, communicated or made known to the public, press and media/
social-media in any manner.
Sexual Harassment and client/partner/vendor
CODITAS SOLUTIONS LLP encourages its clients/ partners/ vendors to have a commitment to a sexual
harassment free working atmosphere within their organizations. CODITAS SOLUTIONS LLP shall play a facilitator
role in redressing complaints of sexual harassment.
Policy Implementation and Review
The policy will be implemented and reviewed by the HR department. The company reserves the right to amend,
abrogate, modify, rescind/ reinstate the entire policy or any part of it any time. Once any change is
implemented the changes will be intimated.
Records & Reports
Records shall be maintained for all complaints received and actioned. The Internal Committee will make an
annual report detailing the number of complaints received, number of complaints disposed, pending
complaints and action taken by the Company and the same shall be submitted to the Human Resources
Department of the Company.
Annexure A- ICC Members List and Email - ICC@coditas.com
Bishaka Ketkar Presiding Officer bishaka.ketkar@coditas.com 9922339007
Jasleen Bagga Member jasleen.bagga@coditas.com 7219299291
Pooja Joshi Member pooja.joshi@coditas.com 9730174207
Indraneel Khamitkar Member indraneel@coditas.com 7588046788
Aman Kumar Member aman.kumar@coditas.com 9971461729
Resham Bamb External Member foundationshy@gmail.com 8010691140
Internal Circulation - 29
Team Outing Policy
Definition- Team outing provides an opportunity to unwind from the demanding and challenging work schedules
and explore bonds and camaraderie with colleagues. Recreation and team bonding activities set a tone for
building relationships that help in growth and learning.
Frequency - Quarterly
Scope - All team members
What to look forward to?
● Icebreaker with new team members
● Getting to know each other better
● Team bonding activities
● Food and Fun
Desired Outcome -
● Boost team bonding and morale
● Enhance communication and collaboration
● Strengthen relationships
Outing T&C - While there’s a fun element, team outings are in the purview of an official capacity and mandates
everyone to adhere to the set policy. The terms are to help ensure fun with safety measures.
● Outing is voluntary and no one is to be compelled to participate.
● Consumption of alcoholic beverages or any other form of intoxication in office outings is strictly
prohibited. Strict disciplinary action will be taken on those found violating.
● Leadership (Partner/Manager/Lead) presence is mandatory in company outings.
● Adherence to safety protocols is of paramount importance. Individuals will be responsible for one’s own
safety.
● Any reported instances of misconduct, misdemeanor, breach of safety protocols, intoxication etc would
be dealt with strictly and lead to stringent disciplinary consequences.
● Group to deter from pursuing ad hoc adventures as an extension to the company outing.
● Expenses are to be incurred as per the allowed budget, prior approval is mandatory.
● Any miscellaneous expenses resulting from stay, travel, adventure activities etc, beyond the approved
budget, is to be borne by self.
● It is the team members' responsibility to safeguard the assets at all points in time, and any damage, loss,
or theft to the asset will be recovered from the team member.
● All Coditas policies, like POSH, code of conduct, disciplinary policies etc will apply during outings.